- [Narrator] Here we have the list of the steps
that we want to execute as a part of the demo.
We'll follow each of the steps one by one
and simultaneously of course we've called for it.
So the first step is you have to define
a user bean to store all user information.
So let's go on to the beans folder.
And create a Java class, let's call it user.
And let's give it attributes.
We've already seen the files.
So we know that there's an ID, email and a name.
So int id string name
string email address
and we'll immediately insert the code
for get her sitters, because we have
to stick to the encapsulation concept
of object oriented programming.
So that's the first step.
Next is you have to define a class user dao
for all the database operations
and define a method in it to insert
user records in database.
So we said that we'll have a different class
for database interactions.
So let's go to the dao package
and create a class called user dao.
And this is going to have a method
public, let's say tra-donce mean integer
and the method is save user.
The parameter will be the user reference.
The bean that we created just now.
Let's import that.
And create a reference for it.
Okay, so there's going to be some implementation here
where we're going to write JDBC code,
get the connection object, make a prepared statement,
and then insert the record using the insert query.
But for that we'll require the connection object.
So under the dao folder let's create one more class,
which is db connection.
And inside this we will write a method.
Let's make it a static method.
It will return you a connection object.
The importers Java dot SQL.
And what does it do?
It gets a connection.
Let's take the reference variable connection
and set it to null initially.
And then we load the driver class,
now this is simple JDBC code.
If you think you have problem understanding this
I'll request you to take a course
on JDBC on LinkedIn Learning.
So what we're going to do is we're
going to load the driver class.
The driver class can be loaded using class dot for name.
The driver class is com dot mysql dot jdbc dot driver.
And after that we are going to take
that connection variable and we're
going to opt in the connection by the driver manager api.
On that there's a method called get connection
and it takes in three arguments.
One is the JDBC URL.
And then the credentials of the database
that you're trying to access.
So that will be JDBC colon
my sql colon local host.
The database server is running on three three zero six.
And the database schema that we're
going to connect to is test.
And let's feed in the credentials also.
So they're going to be root root.
Of course you can externalize these properties
and do a lot better with this quote
but just trying to keep it simple.
Okay, so once we have got the connection
the last step is we have to return
that connection object out of this method.
Of course now it's going to throw a few exceptions
so let's quickly add the tri catch block.
And add a catch clause for this.
So if the class is not found, then it's
clause not found exception.
And anything going wrong with the connection,
it will be an SQL exception.
Let's take this connection variable
on line number 22 outside of this tri blocks,
so that can be accessed throughout the method.
And at the end of the method,
let's return this connection object.
So our connection class is ready,
where we are trying to load the driver class
and get the connection object.
Now once this is done, let's go back
to the user dao class.
And that's where we were, save user.
So now, on line number 16 let's get
the connection from the db connection class.
I'm gonna say db connection.
And just invoke that method.
Next is we need to get the prepared statement
java dot SQL import again.
And we will get that on the connection object
by means of the prepared statement api.
To this we have to pass the query.
So that will be insert into user,
that's the name of the table in our database.
Values and it's a prepared statement
so I'm gonna pass the parameters dynamically.
So id name and email, three parameters going in.
And we have to set those parameters.
So we will do that with the statement object.
So set int, which will be for id,
parameter and I just start from one.
And we will retrieve the values
from this user bean, which is coming as a parameter.
So we're gonna say user dot get id.
That's for integer.
Then the next one is dot set string which is name
parameter index number two.
That also we will get from the user bean.
That's the one.
And then we also have statement dot set string
parameter index number three, which will be email address.
Which we get from the bean again.
Once this is done, let's go at the top of the method.
And on line of 18 I'm going to declare
an integer variable, set it to zero initially.
And then let's come down on line number 24
I'm gonna say row is equal to statement
dot execute update.
So if there was a row inserted, definitely,
then this row's is gonna turn out to be one.
That's what it is gonna do.
Again, check the exceptions, so quickly around
the block with tri catch.
Make sure that the variables that you
need to use throughout the method
are going to be outside the tri block.
So let's cut this out from line 22
and paste it on line 21.
Once all of this is done, then we just
need to return the row's variable out of this method.
So we have written an insert query
with the help of a prepared statement.
We have parsed in the parameters dynamically,
trying to retrieve values from the user bean.
And we're just gonna execute the query against the database.
That's all that you have to do.
Let's look at the next step in the next video.